MEOAlUJ TO: ajor General L. R, üroves.
24 Februsry 145
SUBlECf: The Baae of 0parations of the 509th Canposite Grop.
l. Dring the period fromm 8 February to 21 Februsry 145 an inspec-
tion tour of the islands of Guam and finian 4ss ade by Comander F. L.
Aehsorth, USN, during which information s gathered upon hich a decision
as to the ultimate operating base of the 509th Canposite Group could be
based. Prior to this inspection tour it had been proposed to base the
roup on Gaan. The AAF Ileadqgartera in the forard area have recoamended
Tinian as the basa. In vies of the resulta of the tour of inspection, it
has been deoided that ?inian is the aost deairable island on which to base
the 509th Conposite roup.
2. There are aeveral diasdvantages to Guaa: as a base. Firat and
mont fundaaental is that upon the arrival of the 5gth Wing the existing
faoilities and failities nor under oonstruotion for the operation of
B-29 airorai't from Ouaa will be aompletely absorbod. An airfield fros:
whioh the 509th Group oould operate would not be ready until about kugoet.
There ia an aoute snortage of construotion paraonnel on Gaam beoauae of
the tremendous oonstruction program no underaay there. Shipping to and
from Guam is 'steadily inoressing and exoeeding the asailability of load-
ing and unloading facilities in the harbor and it can be expeoted that
auch a oongestion would hamper and delay the ahipping of all aaterial of
the 509th Group. Inevitsbly the establishment of the spaoial equipaent
for production of the unit on Guam would entail clesring of Jangle areas
and the building in the jangle of aany roads not no proposed for the
island develgpment.
3. The ieland of Tinian is l25 miles north of 0uam and approximately
l450 ailas aoutheast of Tokyo. It is about 10 ailes long and 3 miles wide,
and has a gently rollling terrain. Prior to our oooupstion, approxiaately
95 of ita area was planted in augsr cane. ?inian has tso major airfields,
North Field and West Yield, the larger being Korth Yield with fouur 8500 foot
landing strips directed into the prevailing easterly winds. West Field will
have two 8500 foot landing strips alao directed east and west. Ilarbor
faoilitiea oapable of berthing 8 oargo vensals of the Liiberty Ship type
are no under construction to be oompleted around 15 larch. An excellent
netsork of black-topped ooral base roads ll connect all sajor instslla-
tions on the island.