Mr. Alan Lomax
Recording Laboratory
Music Division
Library of Congress
Washington, D.C.
Dear Alan:;
Route 4
Burlington,N.0.
December 1l, 1941
I hope earnestly that the two disks I shipped you by air express
Monday night reached you safely and quickly.
Ever since then I have been mentally exploring he extrsordinery
possibilities thich this recording technioue has in our wsrtime
situation as well as afterward. You have my profound admiration
for having conceived the idea and havin spurred me - and no doubt
other folklore people - to try it out. It opens up a field which
has not before been touched by the radio, and a field of enormous
importance to :uneric.ans. TIt heighiens their consciousness of
themselves as Americans, and it contributes vitally to civilian
morale in expressing what the common people of the nntion are
feeling and thinking, arn' expression of others than governnental
leaders, radio cormentators, and newsmen.
By this time of the week I am so certein of its continued useful-
ness that I want very much to have a continuing and developing
part in it. Surely it is being continued, isn't it? And on wat
basis'?
TIhstever the basis, potential or actual, I want to talk with you
about it. I can come to Wlashington anytime after December l5th
for that purpose.
My owmn plans need to be set by the first oif the year, and I have
severel in embryo now. But by far the most appealing and important
possibility is with the recording techniue whixh you and I tried
last Monday. Even if the returns from other folklorists were not
much, I am certain that the two disks I cut are alone sufficient
proof that we must go on with a widespread and down-to-earth project
of this sort for the duration of the war. I have solid friend ships
with several 'Iashinpton people whose support of such a project would
probably assure it. You have too, I know. I'rm merely suggesting
a coalition of forces, with confidence that such1 as }rs. Roosevelt
and Charles Seeger will be interested in the project and in any
connection I may have with it.
TThis, you m1st understand, is no attempt to muscle in on something
you have started, but entirely an earnest desire to be of service
to the wartime project which I can most wholeheartedly and efficiently
put myself into.