8ir,
; 75
- ws Park West,
Edgware Road,
ILondon, W.2.
Ju1y 26tn, 19i5.
In your . eaaage to the Poles on the death of General
Sikorski you sai' that your thoughts are with us and that
you will not forpet us. It is frroa those words which you
addresaed to nns that I draw courage to write to you today.
Tews has been given on the wireless tonight about the
mass murders carried out by the Germans in the district of
Lublin in Poland. At the' death oampa of Ma3danek and
Treblinka a monstrous operation hhhas begun, aimed at the
destruction of hundreda of thousanda of human beings who,
no matter how valiant, are today absolutely unable to defend
themaelves or to put up any effective resistance. This eans
that Eitler is purauing his policy of extermination of the
Polish nation, a policy which he has so far carried out with
appalling reaults and unpuniahed.
I am writing to beg you to stop German bestialitiea in
Poland. Mey I take the liberty of suggesting the two measures
by meana of which this result could be achieved.
1) To send a force of Allied bombera to destroy the death
camps at Treblinks and Ma jdanek. TThose camps have beon built
and fitted specially for mass executions (gas and 'steam
chsmbera in which several thousand people can be killed daily),
it would take the Germans several months tö rebuilt them,
during whnich period many thousands human beings could be
saved.
) Imm ddiate retaliation. lI know, thia ia a method equally
strange to the British nation as to any decent minded people,
but it is the sole and only one the Germans can and will
underatand. If they were told that a hundred of their villages
will be razed to the ground by the Allied bombera, unlesa mass
murders in Poland or in any other occupied country, are
atopped, they would stop. And if they aere nade to pay ith
the blood of their own civiliana for the crimea they have
committed. they would not comiait them again. We know that the
culprita will be punished when the Alliedd Nations have won
this war, but by that time they wtill have murdered thousands
and thousanda more of their victims whose lives could still be
savedd , if the Germans were ade to pay for their crimes noW.
I beg you, 8ir, to forgive me for writing to you personolly
in this - atter but, like all other Poles both in this country
and at home, I firmly believe in the friendship and sympathy
with our nation which you have alway s expressed in your speeches
end I now that youu will not want to leave those helpless
victims in Poland to their horriblc fate. The Polish autiaoritiea
in GYeat Britain willl, no doubt, seek assistance of the Allies'
to stop aaas aurdera et Treblinks and }ajdanek but the official
negotiutions always taze tima, while thousands are being lilledd
every day at those death campa. In writing to you, Sir, I hope
The Right Honourcble
Winston Churchill,
The Priae hinister of Great Britain.
thst/