24 February 1945
MEM011A141XÎM TO: Kajor General L. R. Groves.
SUBJECT:	The Base of Operations of the 509th Composite Group.
1.	During the period fron 8 February to 21 February 1945 an inspection tour of the islands of Guam and Tinian was made by Commander F. L. Ashworth, USN, during which information was gathered upon which a decision as to the ultimate operating base of the 509th Composite Group could be based. Prior to this inspection tour it had been proposed to base the Group on Guam. The AAF Headquarters in the forward area have recommended Tinian as the base. In view of the results of the tour of inspection, it has been decided that Tinian is the most desirable island on which to base the 509th Composite Group.
2.	There are several disadvantages to Guam as a base. First and most fundamental is that upon the arrival of the 58th Wing the existing facilities and facilities now under construction for the operation of B~29 aircraft from Guam will be completely absorbed. An airfield from which the 509th Group could operate would not be ready until about August. There is an acute shortage of construction personnel on Guam because of the tremendous construction program now underway there. Shipping to and from Guam is steadily increasing and exceeding the availability of loading and unloading facilities in the harbor and it can be expected that such a congestion would hamper and delay the shipping of all material of the 509th Group. Inevitably the establishment of the special equipment for production of the unit on Guam would entail clearing of jungle areas and the building in the jungle of many roads not now proposed for the island development.
3.	The island of Tinian is 125 miles north of Guam and approximately 1450 miles southeast of Tokyo. It is about 10 miles long and 3 miles wide, and has a gently rolling terrain. Prior to our occupation, approximately 95% of its area was planted in sugar cane. Tinian has two major airfields, North Field and %’est Field, the larger being North Field with four 8500 foot landing strips directed into the prevailing easterly winds. West Field will have two 8500 foot landing strips also directed east and west. Harbor facilities capable of berthing 8 cargo vessels of the liberty Ship type
are now under construction to be completed around 15 March. An excellent network of black-topped coral base roads will connect all major installations on the island.
