173, Park West,
Edgware Road, 
London, W.2.

July 26th, 1943.

Sir,

In your message to the Poles on the death of General
Sikorski you said that your thoughts are with us and that
you will not forget us. It is from these words which you
addressed to us that I draw courage to write to you today.

News has been given on the wireless tonight about the
mass murders carried out by the Germans in the district of
Lublin in Poland. At the death camps of Majdanek and
Treblinka a monstrous operation has begun, aimed at the
destruction of hundreds of thousands of human beings who,
no matter how valiant, are today absolutely unable to defend
themselves or to put up any effective resistance. This means
that Hitler is pursuing his policy of extermination of the
Polish nation, a policy which he has so far carried out with
appalling results and unpunished.

I am writing to beg you to stop German bestialities in
Poland. May I take the liberty of suggesting the two measures
by means of which this result could be achieved.

1) To send a force of Allied bombers to destroy the death
camps at Treblinka and Majdanek. Those camps have been built
and fitted specially for mass executions (gas and steam
chambers in which several thousand people can be killed daily),
it would take the Germans several months to rebuilt them,
during which period many thousands human beings could be
saved.

2) Immediate retaliation. I know, this is a method equally
strange to the British nation as to any decent minded people,
but it is the sole and only one the Germans can and will
understand. If they were told that a hundred of their villages
will be razed to the ground by the Allied bombers, unless mass
murders in Poland or in any other occupied country, are
stopped, they would stop. And if they were made to pay with
the blood of their own civilians for the crimes they have
committed. they would not commit them again. We know that the
culprits will be punished when the Allied Nations have won
this war, but by that time they will have murdered thousands
and thousands more of their victims whose lives could still be
saved, if the Germans were made to pay for their crimes now.

I beg you, Sir, to forgive me for writing to you personally
in this matter but, like all other Poles both in this country
and at home, I firmly believe in the friendship and sympathy
with our nation which you have always expressed in your speeches
and I know that you will not want to leave those helpless
victims in Poland to their horrible fate. The Polish authorities
in Great Britain will, no doubt, seek assistance of the Allies
to stop mass murders at Treblinka and Majdanek but the official
negotiations always take time, while thousands are being killed
every day at those death camps. In writing to you, Sir, I hope

that/

The Right Honourable
Winston Churchill,
The Prime Minister of Great Britain.